---
id: ebf50c6c-5a9d-465e-82c7-174d1cca5d44
blueprint: blog
title: 'Fernweh - Camping Tycoon'
author: 3ab86282-d8ca-45a1-bff1-07230cbc2c23
categories:
  - games
updated_by: 3ab86282-d8ca-45a1-bff1-07230cbc2c23
updated_at: 1780223302
---
Every time I’m camping with my family my inspiration goes haywire. Maybe because it is one of the relaxing moments of the year or maybe the sparks of creativity go into overdrive when we are back to the roots of human life. Whatever the case, I’m always dreaming of creating the ultimate camping tycoon. And it is a big dream, designing a tycoon game with so many good games already dominating the market. Where does one even start and more important, how does the end game even look that isn’t just a copy of the good games out there?

> Plan and design expansive campsites, manage resources, accommodate travelers and enjoy organic growth toward the ultimate camping experience you’ve always dreamed of.

*Fernweh /ˈfɛʁnveː/ noun an ache for travel; missing a distant place one has never visited.

## Pillar 1: Planning
Build facilities from scratch, cultivate plants from seeds and maintain your aging properties. This isn’t just about setting up a campsite: you’re preparing for generations of seasonal visitors.

In plain:
- plan far ahead because you won’t be able to click & drag your properties around
- there is no magic bulldozer tool that cleans up trees or unmaintained vegetation

## Pillar 2: Management
Oversee the movement of travelers, address their needs, recruit staff and adapt quickly during stressful situations.

In plain:
- each visitor has their own needs and preferences, so you may need to keep an eye out where to house your families with young children
- you will always work at your camping but growing might require extra help, be wary though, in low winter seasons they still need payment and work
- animals are cute, but no one likes sleeping next to a bee hive or mosquito breeding place

## Pillar 3: Enjoyment
Observe the changing rhythm of the seasons, gaze at the stars shimmering above the dancing campfires, and sense the pulse of nature alive in a vibrant, ever-changing, ever-growing world.

In plain:
- while there are many challenges, the enjoyment of organic play, stay and growth should never bore
- even during quiet nights there is always something to see: a cozy campfire, a little party, a much needed toilet break
- seasons are a big part of gameplay: sun, rain and snow are more than ecstatic. No one likes 35 degrees in a tent or having nothing to do in rainy seasons.

Check the [official site](https://sparkofchaos.com/fernweh.html) for updates!